---
title: CS50x 02. C
date: 2025-04-28 20:51:14 +0900
categories: [Study, CS50x]
tags: [study, cs50, cs50x, C]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
description: This is the summary of CS50x course.
---

> This is the summary of [CS50x course](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2025/).
{: .prompt-info}

## Intro

---

- Recall that machines only understand binary. 
  Where humans write *source code*, a list of instructions for the computer that is human readable,
  machines only understand what we can now call *machine code*. 
  This machine code is a pattern of ones and zeros that produces a desired effect.
- It turns out that we can convert *source code* into machine code
  using a very special piece of software called a *compiler*. 

---

## Visual Studio Code for CS50

---

- You can open VS Code at [cs50.dev](https://cs50.dev/)

---

## Hello World

---

- We will be using three commands to write, compile, and run our first program:
	- `code hello.c` creates a file and aloows us to type instuctions for this program.
	- `make hello` *compiles* the file from our instructions in C and creates an executable file called `hello`.
	- `./hello` runs the program called `hello`
- We can build your first program in C by typing `code hello.c` into the terminal window.

```c
// A program that says hello to the world

#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
	printf("hello, world\n");
}
```

- `printf` is a function that can output a line of text.
- Notice that the `\n` creates a new line after the words `hello, world`.
- `make` is a compiler that will look for our `hello.c` fine and turn it into a program called `hello`.
- Now, type `./hello` and your program will execute saying `hello, world`.
- You will notice that there is now both a file called `hello.c` and `hello`.
	- `hello.c` is able to be read by the compiler: It's where your code is stored.
	- `hello` is an executable file that you can run but cannot be read by the compiler.

- `\` character is called an *escape character* that tells the compiler 
  that `\n` is a special instruction to create a line break.
  There are other *escape characters* you can use:

```text
\n    create a new line
\r    return to the start of a line
\"    print a double quote
\'    print a single quote
\\    print a backslash
```

---