---
title: CS50x 01. Scratch
date: 2025-04-24 10:29:34 +0900
categories: [Study, CS50x]
tags: [study, cs50x]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
description: This is the summary of CS50x course.
---

> This is the summary of [CS50x course](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2025/).
{: .prompt-info}

## Computer Science and Problem Solving

---

- computer programming is solving a problem
- input -> *black box* -> output
- We could use a system called *unary* (also called *base-1)* to count one finger at a time.
- Computers today count using a system called *binary* from the term *binary digit* that
  we get a familiar term called *bit* (zero or one: on or off).
- Computers use *base-2* to count. This can be pictured as follows:
```Text
2^2  2^1  2^0
4    2    1
```
- Computers generally use eight bits (also known as a *byte*) to represent a number. 
  For example, `00000101` is the number 5 in *binary*. `11111111` represents the number 255. 
  (128/64/32/16/8/4/2/1)

---

## ASCII

---

- American Standard Code for Information Interchange
- Letters are represented using ones and zeros, just as numbers.
- The *ASCII* standard was created to map specific letters to specific numbers.
```Text
H  I  !
72 73 33
```
- More about [ASCII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII)
- Since binary can only count up to *255* we are limited to the number of characters represented by *ASCII*

---

## Unicode

---

- The *Unicode* standard expanded the number of bits that can be transmitted and understood by computers.
  Unicode includes not only special characters, but emoji as well. 🤣😒
- While the pattern of zeros and one is standardized within *Unicode*,
  each device manufacturer may display each emoji slightly differently than another manufacturer.
- More and more features are being added to the Unicode standard to represent further characters and emoji.
- More about [Unicode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode), [emoji](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emoji).

---

## RGB

---

- Red, Green and Blue (called `RGB`) is a combination of three numbers.
- Yellow = R:72, G:73, B:33
- Three three bytes required to represent various colors of red, blue, and green
  make up each *pixel* (or dot) of color in any digital image. 
- Images are simply combinations of RGB values.

---

## Algorithms

---

- An *algorithm* is a step-by-step set of instructions to solve a problem.
- Programmers translate text-based, human instructions into code.

---

## Pesudocode

---

- This process of converting instructions into code is called *pseudocode*.
- Pseudocode is a human-readable version of your code.
- Pseudocode is such an important skill for at least two reasons.
	- When you pseudocode before you create formal code,
  it allows you to think through the logic of your problem in advance.
	- When you pseudocode, you can later provide this information to others
  that are seeking to understand your coding decisions and how your code works.
```Pseudocode
1  Pick up phone book
2  Open to middle of phone book
3  Look at page
4  If person is on page
5      Call person
6  Else if person is earlier in book
7      Open to middle of left half of book
8      Go back to line 3
9  Else if person is later in book
10     Open to middle of right half of book
11     Go back to line 3
12 Else
13     Quit
```
- Unique features
	- Some of these lines begin with verbs like *pick up, open, look at*. Later, we will call these *functions*.
	- Some lines include statements like `if` or `else if`. These are called *conditionals*.
	- How there are expressions that can be stated as *ture* or *false*. We call these *boolean expressions*.
	- How there are statements like "go back to line 3." We call these *loops*.

---

## Artificial Intelligence

---

- Look at the following pseudocode:
```Pseudocode
If student says hello
    Say hello
Else if student says goodbye
    Say goodbye 
Else if student asks how you are
    Say well
Else if student asks why 111 in binary is 7 in decimal
...
```
- Rather than programming conversational AI like the above, 
  AI programmers train *large language models* (LLMs) on large datasets.

.
